https://accesspharmacy.mhmedical.com/content.aspx?bookid=381&sectionid=40140025

The 12 pairs of cranial nerves may possess one or a combination of the following sensory and motor modalities (Figure 17-1; Table 17-1):

Sensory (afferent) neurons. Conduct information from the body tissues to the CNS.
General sensory (general somatic afferent). Transmit sensory information (e.g., touch, pain, and temperature), conducted mainly by CN V but also by CNN VII, IX, and X.
Special sensory (special visceral afferent). Include special sensory neurons (e.g., smell, vision, taste, hearing, and equilibrium), mainly conducted by the olfactory, optic, and vestibulocochlear nerves (CNN I, II, and VIII, respectively) as well as by CN VII and CN X.
Visceral sensory (general visceral afferent). Convey sensory information from the viscera, including the gastrointestinal tract, trachea, bronchi, lungs, and heart, as well as the carotid body and sinus. Visceral sensory neurons course within CN IX and CN X.

Motor (efferent) neurons. Conduct information from the CNS to body tissues.
Somatic motor (general somatic efferent) neurons. Innervate skeletal muscles derived from somites, including the extraocular and tongue muscles. Innervation is accomplished via the oculomotor, trochlear, abducens, and hypoglossal nerves (CNN III, IV, VI, and XII, respectively).
Branchial motor (special visceral efferent) neurons. Innervate skeletal muscles derived from the branchial arches, including the muscles of mastication and facial expression and the palatal, pharyngeal, laryngeal, trapezius and sternocleidomastoid muscles. Innervation is accomplished via the trigeminal, facial, glossopharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves (CNN V, VII, IX, X, and XI, respectively).
Visceral motor (general visceral efferent) neurons. Innervate involuntary (smooth) muscles or glands, including visceral motor neurons that constitute the cranial outflow of the parasympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system. The preganglionic neurons originate
